Let's get in here and
actually build out a layout in our theme.
So the way that I wanna do this theme is,
I wanna provide some color settings,
and then we wanna add some global stuff,
like typography.
And then we will style up our layout, so
have the ability to have a header,
footer in main content.
And then we will add a shared nav
that'll sit up at the top of the site.
And in that will have kind
of some some config as well.
So let's start by defining some of
our styles that we're going to need.
So we'll go into source styles and
the first one that we're going to create
is going to be called variables.css.
And so I'm going to use plain old css
variables because I like them very much.
They don't require us to install
anything new and they work
on in the browser without transpilation
or, or any kind of build step.
So it's easy to debug.
And you can write these in your dev tools
without having to stress out over it.
I very much enjoy this general approach.
Okay, so this is going to be the whole
site we're going to have a color for
black color for white color for text.
And as just a general design thing,
putting pure black and pure white together
can be a little like I said, It just
makes your eyes kind of do a thing.
So a dark gray as opposed to a black
is just a little bit softer.
That's why we're using this
instead of pure dark black.
And then for text,
want it to be a little bit lighter so
that the heading stand out and
those sorts of things.
And this is all that's going in this file.
And you might be thinking like,
well, that's silly.
Why would you create an extra file for
this?
And I'll tell you why
a little bit later on.
Because there's a there's a very specific
reason that we're doing it this way.
So we set up our variables.
Now we're going to set
up our global styles.
And for our global styles,
we're going to keep these pretty simple.
We are going to make sure that
margin padding do what we want.
So we'll say box sizing is
going to be border box.
And then we're going to set
up on the HTML and the body.
We want to set our color to be,
the text color that we created,
we're going to set a font family.
And I'm gonna use to have like,
Apple system does it do the whole thing?
That's close enough for use.
So those are system fonts.
Got font size will set to 18 pixels,
line height of 1.4.
That's just a personal preference.
You can ignore that if you want.
And then I'm going to set
a general margin of 0,
because otherwise the document will have
a little bit of a white border around it.
So these will be our global styles.
So again,
we're not doing much here, right?
We're trying to create some some
baselines for things to look okay.
So we've got our global styles, and
then we're going to add
a scopes module for our layout.
So we'll call this one layout.module.css.
And inside we're gonna say content.
And we'll say margin.
So we'll give our content a good top and
bottom margin about 3 rem and
then we'll center it.
And I'm going to set the max
width to be 54 characters,
this is good for line length.
It means that no matter
what size the font is,
the lines will be roughly
a good readable length.
And then let's tell our footer.
So for our footer,
we're gonna keep it really simple.
You could do a lot of cool
stuff with the footer, but
I just want to have one present and
I don't want to spend a lot of time on,
like building out the markup for a footer.
So we will instead just set up the basics
of what a footer could look like.
So we're going to text align center.
And so this is just going to be small
text centered in the screen with a little
bit of breathing room around it.
And that'll be our entire layout.
So we're going to keep this very,
very straightforward as simple as we can.
Now that we've got that,
let's add a component and
we'll call this one layout.js.
So in layout.js it's going
to be a React component, so
we will import everything
as React from React.
We will also import those Styles.
So we're going to start
with the variables.
Then we're gonna get the global stuff, and
then we're gonna import those
classes that we created,
so content and
footer from our layout module.
Okay, then we can export
default function layout.
And because it's a layout, we're gonna
allow it to have children that means it'll
wrap, a document and
whatever gets passed inside of this
component will be delivered in the,
wherever we use children in here.
So I'm going to return,.
Let's do a fragment and
I'm going to add main,
with a class name of content and
we'll put the children in there.
And then we'll add a footer
with a class name of footer.
And this will just say,
built with the shared Nav Gatsby theme.
Right, so so
we're not doing too much with this.
We're gonna keep this pretty simple.
Close our fragment and
we now have a working layout component.
So we could, at this point, import this
component from the theme and use it.
But we're going to consider this
to be an opinionated theme.
So what we want this theme to do is
actually automatically wrap every page in
a site with the layout.
So let's add a plugin that's
going to let us do that.
And the way that we're going
to do that is yarn workspace.
Gatsby theme shared nav add and
we want Gatsby plugin layout.
So this is actually mimicking a behavior
that used to exist in Gatsby one.
So you may have seen this before, where
it would automatically apply layouts.
It was decided as as a part
of a time to a typo.
Gatsby themes shared nav, there we go.
It was determined that it's
a little unintuitive to have things
like automatically applied.
And honestly React is so good at just
making things into components that that by
default, the behavior that should
be Gatsby doesn't do magic.
Like that was a way when
I used to work there.
That was a mantra for us.
We shouldn't do magic, like, there
should be only magic where it's actually
useful and not where it's neat, right.
And so layouts being automatically
applied got taken out but
this Gatsby plugin layout is re
implementing that functionality in
cases where you are consciously making
the decision that you want that magic.
Because we want it to be, less work for
somebody to install this
theme on their site.
So once we have installed
Gatsby plugin layout,
we can go to our themes, Gatsby.config.
And we're going to set
up our plugins array.
And inside of that,
set up an object for the plugin, or
resolve it to Gatsby,
plug in layout and then as the options.
We want to tell it where our layout is.
So the component is going
to be required out resolve.
You might recognize this from the way
that we do create pages calls.
It's the same general approach,
except we're going to use dirname to
make sure that it uses this theme.
And not like whatever
theme it's installed in.
So we'll do that and
source components layout.js So
the way that you instal
a theme is you have to
actually go in to the Gatsby config.
And we're gonna use
'gatsby-theme-shared-nav'.
It wants us to restart.
Let's restart that dev server
There it is.
So now with no changes to our site
outside of adding this one line to
install the theme, we have added some,
like overarching styles to the site
that make it look really nice.
So, as we kinda navigate around here,
we can see that we didn't
have to make these changes.
These changes were made for
us and as a site builder,
if all I cared about was getting
information going onto the Internet.
Having something like this that gives me
a baseline structure that I can just put
content into is really, really handy.
And if I'm a company that's trying to make
sure that people use a design system or
otherwise kind of keep track of
the shared components or utilities.
Themes are a great way to pass that around
if you standardize on Gatsby as the way
you build for the web.
So now that we've got that,
we can build out that shared nav component